
Introduction:

package management is a method of installing and maintaining (which includes updating and probably removing as well) software on the system.
In the early days of Linux, programs were only distributed as source code, along with the required man pages, the necessary configuration files, and more. 


    dpkg :

				dpkg is a low-level package manager for Debian-based systems. 

				It can install, remove, provide information about and build *.deb packages but it can’t automatically download

				and install their corresponding dependencies.									

		apt-get :

				apt-get is a high-level package manager for Debian and derivatives, and provides a simple way to retrieve and install packages,

				including dependency resolution, from multiple sources using the command line. 

				Unlike dpkg, apt-get does not work directly with *.deb files, but with the package proper name.

			aptitude :

				aptitude is another high-level package manager for Debian-based systems, and can be used to perform management tasks

				(installing, upgrading, and removing packages, also handling dependency resolution automatically) in a fast and easy way. 

				It provides the same functionality as apt-get and additional ones, such as offering access to several versions of a package.

			rpm :

				rpm is the package management system used by Linux Standard Base (LSB)-compliant distributions for low-level handling of packages. 

				Just like dpkg, it can query, install, verify, upgrade, and remove packages, and is more frequently used by Fedora-based distributions, such as RHEL and CentOS.

			yum :

				yum adds the functionality of automatic updates and package management with dependency management to RPM-based systems.

				As a high-level tool, like apt-get or aptitude, yum works with repositories.

				
Commands for Package Management :

- To view the package details :- yum info PACKAGENAME

- Install a package :- yum install PACKAGENAME

- Update all packages :- yum update

- Remove a package :- yum remove PACKAGENAME

- To view transaction history :- yum remove PACKAGENAME

- To reverse a transaction :- yum history undo INDEXNUMBER


